Main Description: You Only Live Once is the opening track and third single from First Impressions of Earth, the third album from American rock band The Strokes. They have performed this song on several programs, including The Tonight Show with Jay Leno and Late Night with Conan O' Brien.When the song was released as a single, The Strokes launched Operation YOLO (You Only Live Once), prompting all of their fans to call and request the single on radio stations. Their goal was to try to get out the word of the new single as fast as possible, by spreading the song by word of mouth. The Strokes Myspace page asked all users to put the song in their profile in an attempt to spread the single among the online community.
Lyric Annotations: 
Whoa, I’ll be waiting for you, baby
 ’Cause I’m through: The same as the first similar lines as this, But now It’s in a more Yearnful and optimistic delivery, with the added “Whoaa”, It signifies that he will just keep living through that hope which correlates with his life and keeps him driving, He is a human
I’ll be waiting for you, baby
 ’Cause I’m through: Now this lines are very beautiful  because they are the general idea or at least the climax of the song lyrically, and it is said in a yearnful delivery and has a sort of escapism and it has a very beautiful interpretation (atleast imo)That both these lines
“I’ll be waiting for you, baby/cause i’m through” means that whatever happens or passes in life, He will wait for this unknown love, This prism, This cataclyst of hope keeps his hope going is somehow going to be one day his lover, Whoever is she or wherever or where she is, It’s his muse and he is through with life’s hardships and is ready now to embrace the hope (fuck)Or it could mean that he has finished doing whatever he was doing and waits for his girlfriend to come to him.Anyways it’s very beautiful
Twenty ways to see the world, oh
 And twenty ways to start a fight, oh: As mentioned later in the song, there’s countless religions and it doesn’t matter which you choose. In this line, the “twenty ways to see the world” are also “twenty ways to start a fight” because there is no single religion or philosophy that is universally loved. Christians, muslims, hindus, jews, atheists, and many other religions are constantly in battle in our society about which way of seeing the world is right.
I can’t see the sunshine: He may not see anything good because he’s ‘feeling under the weather’ or left in the dark.
Another interpretation of this lyric is that it could be tied to the religious idiom of ‘there is nothing new under the sun’
And countless odd religions too
 It doesn’t matter which you choose, oh no: In the second stanza Julian says “Twenty ways to start a fight” and one of those ways is having a difference in religion. This difference, however, hardly matters because we only live once. People are people and we are all the same; going through tough times and good ones. All religions have similar goals (for people to draw closer to God, prepare for an afterlife, etc), and choosing one, for Julian, makes no difference.
Twenty-nine different attributes
 Only seven that you like, oh: You’ll never meet someone who you like completely. You may think you love absolutely everything about them but chances are, there’s tons of things you don’t know about her which you might not end up liking at all.FUN FACT: The dating site eHarmony uses 29 attributes to match potential dates.
Some people think they’re always right
 Others are quiet and uptight
 Others, they seem so very nice-nice-nice-nice, oh
 Inside they might feel sad and wrong, oh no: We live in a diverse world with many different personality types in people but the one thing that we all have in common is the emotions (i.e. “feeling sad and wrong”) we all share as humans.Even though people seem to be nice and happy on the outside, they could be feeling sad. People put on a mask to hide their true emotions.
