Main Description: “Ocean Man” is a song by American experimental rock band Ween on their 1997 Elektra album The Mollusk. AllMusic referred to this song as an example of how Ween’s “array of silly jokes and musical parody is richer and more diverse than most of its alternative rock contemporaries.”The song is also known from its feature on the credits reel for The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie, as the album was a massive influence on Stephen Hillenburg when creating the show. Ween also made their own song for the show, “Loop de Loop”.
Lyric Annotations: 
Ocean man
 Ocean man
 Ocean man: The Ocean man is a mysterious man who is kissed by the sun and braised in the sand, the speaker is asking this man to take him to freedom through the ocean.
[Guitar Solo]: Deaner faces Claude for the song however occasionally he turns around to make his classic scrunched face.
Ocean man, the sequence of a life form braised in the sand
 Soaking up the thirst of the land: braising is a method of cook which involves lightly frying something, and then slowly stewing it in a closed container.thirst could be taken as a play on words here as it can mean to feel the need to drink something, or a strong desire for something (i.e a thirst for knowledge)The ocean and more importantly the shore have had a considerable impact on the ocean mans life. having spent so much time in the sun as to have been tanned or “lightly fried” by the beach.you can look at the last line of the verse depending on what the ocean man is to you.a mythological hydrophile, a personification the liberty experienced at sea far away from the laws and restrictions of land “soaking up the thirst of the land” by absorbing and encapsulating all the independence and freedom of spirit the open ocean has to offerora wise recluse that observes or “soaks up” the actions and behaviors other people on their journey to achieve their desires or “thirsts” in the background of society having already gotten his life figured out.
Ocean man, the voyage to the corner of the globe
 Is a real trip: If you’re “Going with the sea”, for freedom, or to explore, you better be able to take your voyage on forever, as water continuously cover the entire globe without stopping. There is no corner, and it will go on forever. A real trip indeed.
Ocean man, take me by the hand, lead me to the land
 That you understand: An excellent example of the spirit of freedom taking your hand and leading you by the hand to a world full of amazing awesomeness, into the refreshing, beautiful and humbling, vast, mysterious and terrifying world of the Ocean.This line could be also be considered a direct reference to “Echoes” by Pink Floyd, where this lyric is said,And do I take you by the hand
And lead you through the land
And help me understand the best I can?Interestingly enough, “Echoes” by Pink Floyd can be heard in the song “Birthday Boy” because they recorded the track over a previously used tape containing the track.
Ocean man, can you see through the wonder of amazement
 At the Oberman?: Believed to be a malapropism of the term “over man,” which is a concept conceived by German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche.Nietzsche’s definition of the “over man,” or “Übermensch” in the original German, is one who overcomes the herd perspective and is capable of creating a new perspective without dogmatically forcing his perspective on others.An “Oberman” would indeed seem fascinating but unusual to the average man, but the question is: is the Ocean Man able to see through all the wonder and amazement, to see the Übermensch as he really is?
Ocean man, the crust is elusive when it casts forth
 To the childlike man: “Elusive” means something is difficult to find. The “crust” the speaker is referring to may be the bitterness within the Ocean Man, who is stuck at sea.
However, that bitterness cannot be found within the “childlike man,” who is keeping positive despite circumstances.
Ocean man, the crust of a tan man imbibed by the sand
 Soaking up the thirst of the land: “Imbibed” means to drink alcohol or to soak up, so the Ocean Man has skin like a man who has been laying in the sand, tanning. He is “imbibed” by the sand—that is, the hot, dry sand is absorbing him, and this leads to his having crusty skin like someone who has tanned for too long.
